=head1 NAME

IP::World - Fast IP-address to country-code translation using multiple databases

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use IP::World;
 $ipw = IP::World->new($mode);
 $ccod = $ipw->getcc($ipad);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

IP::World returns the ISO-3166 country code associated with an IP4
address.  This version is based on two free databases from
L<http://www.wipmania.com> and L<http://www.maxmind.com>.  An
included application checks the currency of the included database
on installation, and can be scheduled to do so periodically.

The author uses this package for customizing served web pages to
the location of the visitor, particularly to quote prices of items
for sale in the visitor's currency.  Also for server log analysis.

=head2 METHODS

=head3 new

  $ipw = IP::World->new($mode);

In object-oriented terms, this is a I<constructor>.  It returns a
scalar object that's used in calling the I<getcc> method as described
below.

I<$mode> selects the operating mode:

=over 4

=item * 0: fast, keeps data in memory (643 KB at initial release, but 
who cares these days?)

=item * 1: Mmap, keeps data in Mmap memory, may reduce total memory 
requirement of sibling processes. If your system doesn't support Mmap, 
1 operates like 0.

=item * 2: tiny, slow but saves memory by searching the database on disk

=back

=head3 getcc

  $ccod = $ipw->getcc($ipad);

I<$ipad> should contain an IP4 address in one of two formats:

=over 4

=item * a I<dotted quad> string like C<'13.117.255.3'>

=item * a 4-byte packed binary string produced by I<inet_aton> or
C<pack('C4', four values 0-255)>

=back

The return value from I<getcc> will always be a 2-character string.
For most IP addresses this will be one of the codes defined in
the ISO-3166 standard.  You can see these codes on
L<http://www.iso.org/iso/english_country_names_and_code_elements>.

Two return values indicate problems in determining the country code:

=over 4

=item * ** indicates that I<$ipad> was not in either of the
two formats described above.

=item * ?? indicates that the database doesn't include a mapping
for the IP address.

=back

=head2 SCRIPTS

Three Perl scripts are installed with IP::World:

=head3 maint_ip_world_db

The application checks whether new data is available from either data 
source.  If there is, it downloads the data and builds a new database.

You can run this manually to check for a new database, or (on a
server or other 24/7 system) you can schedule it for automatic
execution at a non-busy time each day.

In either case you should run I<maint_ip_world_db> with privilege to
rewrite the database file.  For Unix/Linux systems this means
running it as I<root>, such as by entering the command
C<sudo maint_ip_world_db>.

During installation, you will be asked if a command should be
executed by I<maint_ip_world_db> when a new database has been
created (e.g., to restart a web server that uses the database).

The install process for IP::World runs I<maint_ip_world_db> to ensure
that the most recent data is installed.  

=head3 ip_world_dump

Lists the database created by I<maint_ip_world_db>.

=head3 ip_cc_benchmark

Compares the performance of IP::World with that of similar modules.

=head2 PERFORMANCE

I<ip-benchmark> showed the following results in one run on the 
author's server:

  Module                   Total uS  uS/call  % unknown/private
  IP::Country:Fast           128174    31.29  30
  IP::Country:Fast packed     98741    24.11  30
  Geo::IP Standard            54518    13.31  32
  Geo::IP Memory Cache        23827     5.82  32
  IP::World fast               8690     2.12  28
  IP::World fast   packed      6850     1.67  28
  IP::World mmap               8801     2.15  28
  IP::World mmap   packed      6870     1.68  28
  IP::World tiny             520360   127.04  28
  IP::World tiny   packed    519122   126.74  28

I<packed> indicates conversion of a packed 32-bit IP address rather
than a text address.  I<ip-benchmark> uses the same set of random 
IP addresses for all of the modules in each execution.

=head1 INSTALLATION

See the README file in the distribution package, or let CPAN or 
CPANPLUS take care of installation.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2010, Craig MacKenna

This module is free software; you may redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl 5.10.1.  For more details,
see the full text of the licenses
at L<http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_1_0>
and L<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html>

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
it is provided 'as is' and without any express or implied warranties.
For details, see the full text of the licenses at the above URLs.

=head1 AUTHOR

Craig MacKenna <craig@animalhead.com>

=head1 SEE ALSO

The function of IP-World is almost the same as that of two other
CPAN modules:

=head2 IP::Country::Fast

See L<http://search.cpan.org/perldoc%3FIP::Country>

This module appears to have the disadvantage that its database can
only be updated by re-installing the module.  With IP-World, MaxMind
updates its GeoIP data monthly, and WIPmania updates its WorldIP data
every 2 months.  Such updates are automatically downloaded if you
schedule I<maint_ip_world_db>.

=head2 Geo::IP

See L<http://search.cpan.org/perldoc%3FGeo::IP>

This uses one of the two data sources that IP-World uses.  It can 
also use MaxMind's licensed, fee-based databases that include 
more data.

Unfortunately if you want this package to operate at the speeds 
shown in L</PERFORMANCE>, you have to download a C library from 
L<http://www.maxmind.com> and install it from the command line.  
Someone should tell them about XS modules so that their whole 
package can be obtained from CPAN or CPANPLUS...  

=cut
